----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 160
TITLE: Expressive Decidable String Constraints with Parametric Transducers: A Generic Approach
AUTHORS: Taolue Chen, Matthew Hague, Anthony Lin and Zhilin Wu

Overall evaluation: -1 (weak reject)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SUMMARY
This paper extends an existing framework for string equations and transducers to support more complex transductions. String equations are used to represent constraints over strings and they arise when performing symbolic execution for string manipulating programs. It was shown by Makanin that string equations can be solved and extensions have since been proposed. In prior work, it was shown that adding transducers to the equations leads to undecidability and Lin et al. have investigated fragments for which the problems becomes decidable again (straight line code etc.). In this paper, the authors propose to use richer models of transducers called parametric transducers, which can model more complex transformations (reverse etc.). The results are also extended to symbolic automata and transducers.

OVERALL JUDGMENT
This is an interesting paper on an interesting topic, but I found the technical novelty to be very limited. The authors somewhat reinvented MSO-definable transformations. While the name parametric hints at a different model, the authors are simply setting the output alphabet to a different one from the input one. Once this is discovered, the presented model is just a 2-way transducer and classic results hold. If I understand correctly, all the authors require is to have a transducer model for which the pre-image of a regular language is also regular. Remarkably, this property holds for even more complex models than MSO definable ones (e.g., copyful streaming string transducers). The extension to symbolic transducers is interesting, but the proofs in the appendix are not detailed enough and I can’t quite verify their correctness. See below. In summary, I found the paper to be interesting, but somewhat hard to read and not novel enough. Hence, my score.

PROS
- Interesting problem with potential practical applications

CONS
- I find the writing to be a bit confusing. The authors intermingle practical and theoretical aspects and keep jumping between the two. I would just state at the beginning that in prior work it has been shown that pre-image computation is all one needs and then go from there.
- My main concern, as I voiced, is that the new model is not new. The authors even acknowledge this in related work. P3 mentions that these new transducers can read functions from multiple strings, but the model definition only takes a single string as input. Therefore, I’m not sure what is the contribution in the paper. Moreover, there are models of MSO transducers for which pre-image computation is easier. For example, type-checking for Streaming transducers is PSpace complete (checking whether every input in a language I produces an output in a language O).
- I’m confused by the extensions to symbolic alphabets. I can’t quite follow the appendix since there is very little intuition, but I would expect the number of midterms (number satisfiable predicate boolean combinations) to appear somewhere in the complexity terms. It’s pretty easy to build a transducer that keeps reading the same symbol with different predicates (this doesn’t happen when going one way) and one has to reason about all such combinations of predicates.

MINOR:
- The definition of replaceAll in p3 is really unclear. Example?
- p7: As promised .... by PTs... and later says 2PTs. Which one is it?

----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 160
TITLE: Expressive Decidable String Constraints with Parametric Transducers: A Generic Approach
AUTHORS: Taolue Chen, Matthew Hague, Anthony Lin and Zhilin Wu

Overall evaluation: 1 (weak accept)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
Summary
======= 

The paper presents a decision procedure for strings which supports sting-concatenation, string-reversal, and a replace-all operations. The authors then extend their results to symbolic automata.
This, the authors claim, provide most powerful logic for symbolic automata.
The main idea is to introduce a new logic with a new form of transducers--parametric transducers--as primitive operations. The key difference between a standard transducer and a parametric transducers is that the former outputs specific strings over transitions while the latter prints out symbolic variables which can later be instantiated to particular strings. 



Analysis
========

The paper addresses and important problem: Efficient and expressive decision procedures for strings are desperately needed by the symbolic execution community. The paper provides an innovative construction--parametric transducers-- which seems to be a sweet spot between standard ones and symbolic ones (the latter allow for symbolic encoding of the alphabet). 

The paper is rather dense and quite difficult to follow. 
Specifically, reading Section 5 is rather challenging.
However, even though I am not an expert in the area, the paper provided enough context to clarify its position within the rich literature about string solvers. 

The paper provides some decidability results. 
While these are not too promising (the decidability problem is wEXSPACE-complete.)
Nevertheless, one can only hope that in practice, the solving would tun out to be efficient enough.
Thus, it is unfortunate that the authors did not provide an implementation, as this would have made the paper even stronger. However, even in its current state the paper provides interesting and useful results.


Comments:
========= 

- One of the main contributions of the paper is the support of the reverse operation. As supporting it requires introducing two-way transducers, one can wonder if it is worth it. I.e., us this operation common in practical applications? Can you obtain better complexity results without it?

Major comments:
================ 

- Page 10, line 4: What is "B_{q,q'}" ? 


Typos:
====== 

Page 5: "For latter reference" => "For later reference"

----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 160
TITLE: Expressive Decidable String Constraints with Parametric Transducers: A Generic Approach
AUTHORS: Taolue Chen, Matthew Hague, Anthony Lin and Zhilin Wu

Overall evaluation: 1 (weak accept)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
This paper studies the decidability and complexity of the satisfiability problem for some class of string constraints. This is an important and hot research topic since string constraints can be used in many applications such as the verification of programs manipulating string and the detection of scripting vulnerabilities. This paper considers a fragment of string constraints with parameter transducers where the output string of any given parametric transducer can contain some string variables. It is well-known that the satisfiability problem for string constraint with transducers (even with non-parametric transducers) is undecidable. Therefore, the authors consider the straight-line restriction. This main contribution of the authors is to show that if the set of functions appearing in a given straight-line string constraint satisfies the regularity conditions (i.e. the pre-image of any function is an effectively regular/ recognizable) set then the satisfiability problem is!
  decidable.     
Then, the authors show that the functions appearing in a given straight-line string constraint when implemented using  2-way parametric transducers satisfy the regularity and therefore the satisfiability problem for such class of string constraints is decidable. Furthermore, the authors show that the satisfiability problem can be solved in n-EXPSPACE where n is the number of assignment in the string constraints. The authors show that if the number of reversal in the 2-way parametric transducers, then the satisfiability problem becomes in 2-EXPSPACE. Finally, the authors consider the sub-case of one-way parametric transducers or parametric transducers implementing “ReplaceAll" or “Reverse". In the latter case, the authors show that the satisfiability problem is EXPSPACE-complete. 


Overall, the problem addressed in this paper is interesting. The paper is easy to read and to follow however I found the relation between string functions and parametric transducers is very complicated. I wonder why not considering from the beginning a transducer with multiple tapes. The results presented in this paper are interesting (at least form the theoretical point of view) however not very surprising.  It is not clear if the results obtained in this paper will lead to efficient techniques for the analysis of string constraints given the complexity. The techniques which are used to prove the decidability results are standard in my opinion. Furthermore,  the novelty of the used techniques is not clear compared to some previously published paper [15,28,39].  In my opinion, this paper slightly extends these results especially for the most interesting case of the one-way parametric transducer or parametric transducers implementing “ReplaceAll" or “Reverse (which has th!
 e lowest complexity). Finally, the paper would be stronger if tight lower-bounds were given for the first two subclasses.

----------------------- REVIEW 4 ---------------------
PAPER: 160
TITLE: Expressive Decidable String Constraints with Parametric Transducers: A Generic Approach
AUTHORS: Taolue Chen, Matthew Hague, Anthony Lin and Zhilin Wu

Overall evaluation: -1 (weak reject)

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
Overview
--------
This paper is concerned with identifying decidable classes of string
constraints with a primary view of using such a decision procedure in symbolic
execution of web applications. The paper is concerned with extending
transducers to deal with string manipulation functions such as reverse and
concatenation. The main idea is to use parameteric transducers, an extension of
string transducers. One of the main achievements is the ability to handle the
type of functions arising in auto-sanitizers.


Evaluation
-----------

1. This is a theoretically solid paper. One of the significant achievements is
summarized by Theorem 5, showing that the procedure in the paper preserves
decidability and complexity in the presence of replaceall and reverse
constraints.

2. I disagree with the intuition the authors present about transducer-based
reasoning being necessarily the way to go for reasoning about string
constraints. This paper proves decidability - yes. Also, automata theoretic
techniques are a natural step towards the problem, but I feel that recent
experience shows that one must combine with symbolic reasoning techniques, and
in fact, as shown by reference 38, one may question if the automata part is
required at all. Specifically, I intuitively feel that in practice, an
effective way to reason about the reverse and replaceall functions is to use
some axiomatic constraints.

3. I think one thing that the paper did not make clear to me in the lead-up is
that it is a purely theoretical paper. There is a lot of emphasis on practical
applications and I was surprised to find in the related work section, a whole
paragraph discussing existing benchmarks, but no benchmarking in the paper
itself. Since there are already a few transducer-based string solvers I wonder
what prevented the authors from implementing their procedure. Alternatively, I
would have been fine if they presented it as a purely theoretical result.

------------------------------------------------------
